Conference Database Relational Implementation
In the last assignment you created an ER diagram for a conference database.  You will now convert the ER schema to a relational schema using the algorithm shown in class. Create all the tables via a script that you will import into a MySQL database.   You may use the company database script as a template.  You should NOT be using the graphical interface to build your tables, you must write the SQL create table statements yourself.  Using the output from the GUI will result in zero on the assignment.  (Yes, we can tell the difference).

Call your database conferenceDB.    At the top of you script you must have the following lines so that the database is created in the script:

drop database if exists conferenceDB;
create database conferenceDB;
use conferenceDB;
Make sure you indicate the primary key and any foreign keys, as well as NOT NULL constraints for each table/attribute.  (Think about what makes sense for each of the attributes).  Populate your table with some reasonable data.   At least 6-8 tuples for each table is expected.  Adding data should be done by a series of insert statements in your script.  (See the company database example).

Please note, there are tools that exist that translate ER schemas to Relational Schemas automatically.  However, they may not translate to the same Relational Schema as you would end up with by using the algorithm shown in class. Your assignment will be marked using the algorithm shown in class -- other translations will be considered incorrect.

Be sure that you specify the "on delete" constraints for any foreign keys.

You should try running your script in MySQL prior to submitting to ensure that it runs without error.

You must NOT turn off the foreign key checking when you run your script.  Arrange your statements so that the script runs without foreign key constraint violations.

What to Submit
Submit your  ER diagram from the last assignment in either .pdf or .jpg format.  You may modify your diagram to fix any errors.  Hand in the modified version.   Submit your script file as a plain text file.  TAs will run your scripts and must be able to simply download the script and import into their MySQL database.